In the last lecture we added route protection.
Now of course it would also be nice to not even show a link to that route if we can't go there.
So I need to adjust what I output in the header
depending on the auth state,
now that's super simple.
Let's go to the store
first of all and let's add a new getter and there, I'll name it isAuthenticated,
you can choose any name you want. isAuthenticated is a method as all getters which receives the state and
I simply return the result of a very trivial check, I'll see if state ID token is equal to null, not equal
to null,
I mean. If it's not equal to null, we are authenticated because then we have a token,
so that is what I return. isAuthenticated is a getter
I can now use in my header component, there I'll add my script tags,
export the default object and add a computed property to map my getter to some property I can use in
the header component, here
I will name it auth,
you can choose any name you want,
it's a method as all computed properties and I will return the result of this, reach out to the store,
getters and there, reach out to this new isAuthenticated getter we just added a second ago. As all getters,
don't execute it as a function,
use it as a property,
vuex will do the rest.
So now we get this isAuthenticated information from the store, in the header we can now use this auth property
which this information is mapped to to only render the links we want to render.
So for sign up, we can use v-if to only render this if we're not authenticated because signing up
only makes sense if we're not authenticated, the same for sign-in, v-if not auth is the right check here.
For the dashboard on the other hand,
I want to check if we are authenticated,
so this is what I then map. With this,
if I go back to my application and reload, we can already see it,
we get sign up and sign in, as soon as I do sign in though, we only got the dashboard.
Now that's great,
now we got a working UI update
depending on the auth state. Speaking on the auth state, we can always reload to logout,
by the way something we'll also work on later so that we persists the state,
we haven't used that local storage thing from the slides at all yet.
But before we move onto that, why don't we add a logout button too,
wouldn't that be nice?
Let's do this in the next lecture.